every one so I'm going to take us back
to 2007 I just been about six months
working on an album that I had poured my
heart and my soul into and it was
getting about three plays per day on
MySpace at the time and I was getting
more and more depressed when I started
noticing these other people who were
playing guitar and singing and putting
videos on this new site called YouTube
and they were getting 300,000 views so I
decided I'm going to start making some
YouTube videos and one day they featured
a video of my band on the homepage which
was amazing we got a bunch of new fans
we also got a bunch of people who I
guess just didn't really like the music
or something they but that's okay
because people started coming to our
shows and we started touring and we came
out with a record and when I checked our
bank account balance after our first
monthly iTunes payout we had twenty two
thousand bucks in it which was amazing
because at the time I was living at my
dad's house trying to make a living as a
musician by uploading videos to the
Internet which literally zero people
respected in 2009 even the people who
were uploading videos to the Internet
and so for the next four years I
uploaded more and more videos to the
Internet and they got better and better
and we make enough money through brand
deals and commercials and iTunes sales
to buy a house and we built a recording
studio but there was one big problem
making money as a creative person in
2013 was super weird first of all the
business models were changing all the
time so our 58 thousand dollars of
annual iTunes download income was about
to be replaced by about six thousand
dollars of streaming income streams paid
less than downloads and as more and more
creators started popping up online there
was just more competition for these
five-figure brand deals that had like
kept the band afloat for years and to
top it a lot our videos themselves the
creative stuff that we made that our
fans loved and appreciated and that
we're actually contributing value to the
world those videos were generating
almost zero dollars of income for us so
this is an actual snapshot of my YouTube
dashboard from a 28-day period that
shows 1 million views and 166 dollars of
ad earnings for those views the whole
machine in 20
13 that took art online and outputted
money was totally non-functional it
doesn't matter if you're a if you're a
newspaper or or an institution or an
independent creator a monthly web
webcomic with twenty thousand monthly
readers twenty thousand monthly readers
gets paid a couple hundred bucks in ad
revenue this is twenty thousand people
like in what world is this not enough I
on I don't understand that what what
systems have we built where this is
insufficient for a person to make a
living so I actually have a theory about
this I think it's been a weird hundred
years yeah so about about a hundred
years ago humans figured out how to
record sound onto wax cylinder that was
the beginning of the phonograph right
around the same time we figured out how
to record light onto a piece of
photographic paper celluloid beginning
of film and television and so for the
first time you could like store art on a
thing which was amazing
art used to be completely ephemeral so
if you missed the symphony you just
didn't get to hear the orchestra but now
for the first time you could store the
orchestra's performance on a physical
object and like listen to it later which
is amazing it was so amazing in fact
that for the next hundred years between
1900 and 2000 humans built just billions
and billions of dollars of
infrastructure to essentially help
artists do two things first put their
art on a face and second get that thing
around the world to the people who
wanted the art so so much industry is
devoted to these two problems oh my gosh
there's trucking companies and
brick-and-mortar and marketing firms and
CD jewel-case manufacturers and all
devoted to these two problems and then
we all know what happened ten years ago
the internet matures and we get Spotify
and Facebook and YouTube and iTunes and
Google search and a hundred years of
infrastructure at supply chains and
distribution systems and monetization
schemes are completely bypassed in a
decade after a hundred years of
designing these things it's no wonder
that it's just totally broken for
creative people right now it's no wonder
that the monetization part of the chain
doesn't work given this new context but
what gets me super excited to be a
creator right now to be alive today to
be a creative person right now is
realizing that we're only we're only ten
years into figuring out this new machine
to figuring out the next hundred years
of infrastructure for our creators and
you can tell we're only ten years and as
a lot of trial and error there's some
really good ideas for me there's a lot
of experimentation we're figuring out
what works and what doesn't like twitch
streamers who sort of twitch twitch
streamers are making three to five
thousand bucks a month uploading a
streaming gaming content the big ones
are making over a hundred thousand
dollars a year that there's a site
called you now as an app it allows
musicians and bloggers to get paid in
digital goods from fans so I'm also
working on the problem four years ago
started a company called patreon with a
friend of mine where 80 people now
working on this problem it's basically a
membership platform that makes it really
easy for creators to get paid every
month from their fans to earn a living
for creator it's like having a salary
for being a creative person and this is
this is one of our craters they're
called kind of funny
they have about 220,000 subscribers on
YouTube and when they upload a video
gets somewhere around 15,000 views
200,000 views I want you to check
yourselves right now I think when we
hear numbers like that when we hear
15,000 views and we see content like
this we just like snap categorize it as
being not as legitimate as like a
morning show that you'd hear on the
radio you know or a talk-show that you'd
see on NBC or something but when kind of
funny launched on patreon within a few
weeks they were making thirty-one
thousand dollars per month for this show
it took off so fast that they decided to
expand their programming and add new
shows and now they launched the second
patreon page they're making an
additional twenty-one thousand dollars
per month and they're scaling what's
essentially becoming a media company
financing the whole thing through
membership okay
here's another example this is derek
Bodnar a sports journalist used to write
for Philadelphia magazine till a few
months ago in the magazine cut out all
sports coverage now he writes articles
and publishes them on his
website he's still covering sports but
for himself he's making 4,800 bucks a
month from 1700 patrons financing it
through membership this is crash course
free educational content for the world
this shows actually on the PBS digital
network twenty nine thousand dollars per
month this is a duo sailing around the
world getting paid every month for
documenting their travels from 1,400
patrons this is a podcast chapo Trap
House making actually since I screenshot
of this they're making an additional two
thousand per month so this is they're
now making fifty six thousand dollars
per month for their podcasts and patreon
is not the only one working on the
problem so you can Google's starting to
work on this a couple years ago they
launched fan-funding more recently they
launched super chat is a way for
creators to monetize live-streaming
newspapers are starting to experiment
with membership new york times as a
membership program The Guardian has over
200,000 paying subscribers to its
membership program there's this like
bubbling soup of ideas and experiments
and and progress right now and it's
pointing in the direction of getting
creators paid and it's working it's not
like perfect yet but it's really working
so patreon has over 50,000 creators on
the platform making salaries getting
paid every month for putting art online
for being a creative person the next
hundred years of infrastructure is on
the way and it's going to be different
this time because of this because of the
direct connection between the person who
makes the thing and the person who likes
the thing about seven or eight years ago
I went to a cocktail party this is when
the band had like hit our first machine
so things are really cranking we just
made about four hundred thousand dollars
in one year through iTunes sales and
brand deals and stuff like that and this
guy comes up to me and says hey Jack
what do you do I said I'm a musician and
he just like got he sobered up like
immediately and he stuck out his hand
put a hand on my shoulder and in like a
real earnest very nice voice he's like I
hope you make it someday
and I have so many moments like that
logged in my memory I just cringe
thinking of that it's so embarrassing to
just not feel valued as a creative
person but as a species we're leaving
that cocktail party behind we're leaving
that that culture were out of there
we're going to get so good at paying
creators within 10 years kids graduating
high school and college are going to
think of being a crater as just being an
option I could be a doctor I could be a
lawyer I could be a podcaster I could
have a webcomic like it's just going to
be something you can do we're figuring
it out it's going to be a viable and
sustainable and respected profession
creators are going to come out the other
end of this weird hundred years the
century long journey with an awesome new
machine and they're going to be paid and
they're going to be valued thanks
everybody
ah I think it went pretty well yeah I
want artists who saw that to not give up
to know that you know we're getting
there it's not it's not it's not there
yet but in a couple years there will be
so many systems and tools for them to
just make a living online and if they've
got a podcast that's that's starting to
take off but they are not able to make
money on it yet like that's happening
and they're going to be paid it happens
[Music]